Basics of HTTP :

HTTP is an extensible protocol that relies on concepts like resources and Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs), 
simple message structure, and client-server communication flow. On top of these basic concepts, numerous 
extensions have been developed over the years that add updated functionality and semantics with new HTTP 
methods or headers.

An overview of HTTP :

HTTP is a protocol for fetching resources such as HTML documents. It is the foundation of any data exchange 
on the Web and it is a client-server protocol, which means requests are initiated by the recipient, 
usually the Web browser. A complete document is reconstructed from the different sub-documents fetched, 
for instance, text, layout description, images, videos, scripts, and more.

Components of HTTP-based systems :

HTTP is a client-server protocol: requests are sent by one entity, the user-agent (or a proxy on behalf of it).
Most of the time the user-agent is a Web browser, but it can be anything, for example, a robot that crawls the
Web to populate and maintain a search engine index.

Evolution of HTTP :

HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) is the underlying protocol of the World Wide Web. Developed by Tim Berners-Lee
and his team between 1989-1991, HTTP has gone through many changes that have helped maintain its simplicity while 
shaping its flexibility. Keep reading to learn how HTTP evolved from a protocol designed to exchange files in a 
semitrusted laboratory environment into a modern internet maze that carries images and videos in high resolution and 3D.

Invention of the World Wide Web :

In 1989, while working at CERN, Tim Berners-Lee wrote a proposal to build a hypertext system over the internet. 
Initially called the Mesh, it was later renamed the World Wide Web during its implementation in 1990. Built over the 
existing TCP and IP protocols, it consisted of 4 building blocks:

A textual format to represent hypertext documents, the HyperText Markup Language (HTML).
A simple protocol to exchange these documents, the HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP).

HTTP Messages :

HTTP messages are how data is exchanged between a server and a client.There are two types of messages: requests sent
by the client to trigger an action on the server, and responses, the answer from the server.

HTTP messages are composed of textual information encoded in ASCII, and span over multiple lines. 

In HTTP/1.1, and earlier versions of the protocol, these messages were openly sent across the connection. 
In HTTP/2, the once human-readable message is now divided up into HTTP frames, providing optimization and performance improvements.

